Evolution of game technology:- 
From the early years of game technology to the impact of cloud computing today, the infusion of new technologies in the gaming world occurs at lightning speeds. This lesson will review some of the major developments in game technologies and their impacts on the player experience.

Early games:
Although earlier games such as Table Tennis for Two paved the way, in the 1970s, Pong introduced players to their first game experience before personal computers (PCs). Single player games played by one person against the computer were the norm.

Arcade games:
The golden age of video games brought video arcades to gamers, even in small towns, and introduced players to classics such as Space Invaders.

Game consoles:
Players got to experience the first game consoles in their homes. The evolution of game cartridges in the console brought a new focus on game development because players wanted more of the games that they knew and loved from arcades.

PCs:
Players benefited from the processing power of PCs as game developers built more complex games with engaging stories and more complex interactions.

Online play:
Player experience leapt forward as internet access grew and players were able to play each other. Players could now interact regardless of location, and the need to communicate in real time become a requirement.

MMO:
The next development was massively multiplayer online (MMO) games, including, massively multiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPGs). The success of games such as World of Warcraft and EVE Online broke barriers as thousands of gamers experienced simultaneous campaigns in persistent worlds. The need to scale to support infrastructure became even more critical.

Mobile:
The players' experience went mobile with the introduction of smartphones. Game builders developed new gaming apps for audiences such as casual gamers. Now all gamers could take their games everywhere, all the time.

AR: 
Now, we move closer to the present, starting with augmented reality (AR). With the success of games such as Pokémon Go, players experience a new, modified world superimposed on to the game environment. Game designers have a new world of opportunities open up.

VR:
With games such as Beat Saber, using a virtual reality (VR) headset and controllers, the player is transported into a first-person perspective, in 360 degrees, to a new level of immersion.

Cloud Infrastructure for Gaming and Cloud Gaming Services:
As cloud computing delivers flexibility and scale, game builders run more games on cloud infrastructure. Gaming services offer cloud streaming and players benefit with new options to access libraries of games or subscriptions.
